doc: nRF desktop - Split docs into subpages (#13938)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/nrf_desktop_description.rst

* Application-related threads
    * Motion sensor thread (running only on mouse)
    * Settings loading thread (enabled by default only on keyboard)
    * QoS data sampling thread (running only if Bluetooth® LE QoS feature is enabled)

Most of the application activity takes place in the context of the system work queue thread, either through scheduled work objects or through the Application Event Manager callbacks (executed from the system workqueue thread).
Because of this, the application does not need to handle resource protection.
The only exception are places where the interaction with interrupts or multiple threads cannot be avoided.

Memory allocation
=================

Most of memory resources that are used by the application are allocated statically.

The application uses dynamic allocation to:

* Create the Application Event Manager events.
  For more information, see the :ref:`app_event_manager` page.
* Temporarily store the HID-related data in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_state` and :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward`.
  For more information, see the documentation pages of these modules.

> When configuring HEAP, make sure that the values for the following options match the typical event size and the system needs:

Reviewer: I think we can make it lower case

This option overlays Kconfig option defaults from the Shell subsystem to align them with the nRF Desktop requirements.
The nRF Desktop configuration uses SEGGER J-Link RTT as the Shell subsystem backend.
If both shell and logging are enabled, logger uses shell as the logging backend.

See the :file:`Kconfig.debug` file content for details.

Default common configuration
----------------------------

The nRF Desktop application aligns the configuration with the nRF Desktop use case by overlaying Kconfig defaults and selecting or implying the required Kconfig options.
Among others, the Kconfig :ref:`app_event_manager` and :ref:`lib_caf` options are selected to ensure that they are enabled.
The :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_SETTINGS_LOADER <config_desktop_app_options>` and :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_POWER_MANAGER <config_desktop_app_options>` are implied to enable the :ref:`nrf_desktop_settings_loader` and :ref:`nrf_desktop_power_manager` modules, respectively.
See the :file:`Kconfig.defaults` file for details related to default common configuration.

.. _nrf_desktop_bluetooth_configuration:

> Bluetooth configuration

Reviewer 2: Just a question - at the end of this section there's a redirect to https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-13938/nrf/applications/nrf_desktop/nrf_desktop_integration.html#bluetooth-in-nrf-desktop. Is there a reason from the user's perspective to keep the Bluetooth section this size in the main article? Would it make sense to e.g., shorten it significantly and just redirect the user to the more detailed article?

Author: Bluetooth configuration explains application-specific configuration options related to Bluetooth support and https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-13938/nrf/applications/nrf_desktop/nrf_desktop_integration.html#bluetooth-in-nrf-desktop is more about Bluetooth support in nRF desktop, where Bluetooth configuration can considered as subset. But, I think the current structure looks okay to me.

@MarekPieta : Could you share your thought on this?

Reviewer: The `Bluetooth configuration` is a high-level overview of application-specific Kconfig options (I wanted to place it in configuration subsection to highlight it - some options are applied by default only by our application so it's worth to ensure that user is aware). The linked section describes Bluetooth setup in greater detail (since it's pretty long it was placed in a separate section).

Reviewer 2: Thanks guys, makes sense, all clear:)

For a board to be supported by the application, you must provide a set of configuration files at :file:`applications/nrf_desktop/configuration/your_board_name`.
The application configuration files define both a set of options with which the nRF Desktop application will be created for your board and the selected :ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`.
Include the following files in this directory:

Mandatory configuration files
    * Application configuration file for the :ref:`debug build type <nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types>` (:file:`prj.conf`).
    * Configuration files for the selected modules.

Optional configuration files
    * Application configuration files for other build types.
    * Configuration file for the bootloader.
    * Memory layout configuration.
    * DTS overlay file.

See :ref:`porting_guide_adding_board` for information about how to add these files.

.. _nrf_desktop_board_configuration_files:

nRF Desktop board configuration files
-------------------------------------

The nRF Desktop application comes with configuration files for the following reference designs:

> nRF52840 Gaming Mouse (nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840)

Reviewer 3: Should we have all the boards between double backticks?

nRF52832 Desktop Mouse (nrf52dmouse_nrf52832) and nRF52810 Desktop Mouse (nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810)
      * Both reference designs are meant for the project-specific hardware and are defined in :file:`nrf/boards/arm/nrf52dmouse_nrf52832` and :file:`nrf/boards/arm/nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810`, respectively.
      * The application is configured to act as a mouse.
      * Only the Bluetooth LE transport is enabled.
        Bluetooth uses either Zephyr's software link layer (nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810) or Nordic's SoftDevice link layer (nrf52dmouse_nrf52832).
      * The preconfigured build types for both nrf52dmouse_nrf52832 and nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810 boards are without the bootloader due to memory size limits on nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810 board.

Sample mouse, keyboard or dongle (nrf52840dk_nrf52840)
      * The configuration uses the nRF52840 Development Kit.
      * The build types allow to build the application as mouse, keyboard or dongle.
      * Inputs are simulated based on the hardware button presses.
      * The configuration with the B0 bootloader is set as default.

>       * The board supports debug :ref:`nrf_desktop_bluetooth_guide_fast_pair` configuration that acts as a mouse (:file:`prj_fast_pair.conf`).

Author: After offline discussion, fixed with backticks. Also, applied wherever applicable in the application docs.

        Input data comes from Bluetooth and is retransmitted to USB.
      * |preconfigured_build_types|

Sample dongle (nrf5340dk_nrf5340)
      * The application is configured to act as a dongle that forwards data from both mouse and keyboard.
      * Bluetooth uses Nordic's SoftDevice link layer without LLPM and is configured to act as a central.
        Input data comes from Bluetooth and is retransmitted to USB.
      * The configuration with the B0 bootloader is set as default.

Adding nRF21540 EK shield support
=================================

The nRF Desktop application can be used with the :ref:`ug_radio_fem_nrf21540ek` shield, an RF front-end module (FEM) for the 2.4 GHz range extension.
The shield can be used with any nRF Desktop HID application configured for a development kit that is fitted with Arduino-compatible connector (see the :guilabel:`DK` tab in `Requirements`_).
This means that the shield support is not available for nRF Desktop's dedicated boards, such as ``nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840``, ``nrf52kbd_nrf52832``, or ``nrf52840dongle_nrf52840``.

Low Latency Packet mode
-----------------------

> The RF front-end module (FEM) cannot be used together with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) due to timing requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You cannot use the RF front-end module (FEM) together with Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) due to timing requirements.
```

> The LLPM support in the nRF Desktop application (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM`) must be disabled for builds with FEM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must disable the LLPM support in the nRF Desktop application (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM`) for builds with FEM.
```

      * Notification Type: Fast Pair
      * Data-Only connection: true
      * No Personalized Name: false

   * NCS gaming mouse - Fast Pair Provider meant to be used with gaming mice:

      * Device Name: NCS gaming mouse
      * Model ID: ``0x8E717D``
      * Anti-Spoofing Private Key (base64, uncompressed): ``dZxFzP7X9CcfLPC0apyRkmgsh3n2EbWo9NFNXfVuxAM=``
      * Device Type: Input Device
      * Notification Type: Fast Pair
      * Data-Only connection: true
      * No Personalized Name: false

   See :ref:`ug_bt_fast_pair_provisioning` documentation for the following information:

   * Registering a Fast Pair Provider
   * Provisioning a Fast Pair Provider in |NCS|

.. nrf_desktop_fastpair_important_start

.. important::
   This is the debug Fast Pair provisioning data obtained by Nordic for the development purposes.
   It should not be used in production.

   To test with the debug mode Model ID, you must configure the Android device to include the debug results while displaying the nearby Fast Pair Providers.
   For details, see `Verifying Fast Pair`_ in the GFPS documentation.

.. nrf_desktop_fastpair_important_end

.. _nrf_desktop_testing_steps:

Testing
=======

> The application can be built and tested in various configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can build and test the application in various configurations.
```

#. Insert the :ref:`debug board or bypass board <nrf_desktop_debugging>` into the mouse to make sure it is powered.
#. Turn on both mouse and keyboard.
   **LED1** on the keyboard and **LED1** on the mouse start breathing.
#. Plug the dongle to the USB port.
   The blue **LED2** on the dongle starts breathing.
   This indicates that the dongle is scanning for peripherals.
#. Wait for the establishment of the Bluetooth connection, which happens automatically.
   After the Bluetooth connection is established, the LEDs stop breathing and remain turned on.
   The devices can then be used simultaneously.

   .. note::
        You can manually start the scanning for new peripheral devices by pressing the **SW1** button on the dongle for a short time.
        This might be needed if the dongle does not connect with all the peripherals before scanning is interrupted by a timeout.

#. Move the mouse and press any key on the keyboard.
   The input is reflected on the host.

   .. note::
       When a :ref:`configuration with debug features <nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types>` is enabled, for example logger and assertions, the gaming mouse report rate can be significantly lower.

>        Make sure that you use the release configurations before testing the mouse report rate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       Make sure that you use the ``release`` configurations before testing the mouse report rate.
```

>        For the release configurations, you should observe a 500-Hz report rate when both the mouse and the keyboard are connected and a 1000-Hz rate when only the mouse is connected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       For the ``release`` configurations, you should observe a 500-Hz report rate when both the mouse and the keyboard are connected and a 1000-Hz rate when only the mouse is connected.
```

> #. Switch the Bluetooth peer on the gaming mouse by pressing the Precise Aim button (see `User interface`_).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Switch the Bluetooth peer on the gaming mouse by pressing the **Precise Aim** button (see `User interface`_).
```

   The color of **LED1** changes from red to green and the LED starts blinking rapidly.

> #. Press the Precise Aim button twice quickly to confirm the selection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Press the **Precise Aim** button twice quickly to confirm the selection.
```

You can use any preferred HID report rate tool.

.. note::
   The host computer controls polling a HID peripheral for HID reports.
   The HID peripheral cannot trigger sending a HID report even if the report is prepared in time.
   Polling inaccuracies and missing polls on the host side can negatively affect the measured report rate.
   Make sure to close all unnecessary PC applications to mitigate negative impact of these applications on polling HID devices.
   If you are using a browser-based tool, leave open only the tab with HID report rate measurement tool to ensure that no other tab influences the measurement.

Building information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the :file:`prj_release.conf` configuration for the HID report rate measurement.
Debug features, such as logging or assertions, decrease the application performance.

Use the nRF Desktop configuration that acts as a HID mouse reference design for the report rate measurement, as the motion data polling is synchronized with sending HID reports.

Make sure your chosen motion data source will generate movement in each poll interval.
Without a need for user's input, you can generate HID reports that contain mouse movement data.

> To do this, use the :ref:`Motion simulated module <nrf_desktop_motion_report_rate>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the :ref:`Motion simulated module <nrf_desktop_motion_report_rate>` for this.
```

To build an application for evaluating HID report rate, run the following command:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -p -b <target> -- \
      -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf \
      -DCONFIG_DESKTOP_MOTION_SIMULATED_ENABLE=y \

Report rate measuring tips
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See the following list of possible scenarios and best practices:

> * If two or more peripherals are connected through the dongle, and all of the devices support LLPM, then the Bluetooth LE LLPM connection events split evenly among all of the peripherals connected through that dongle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If two or more peripherals are connected through the dongle, and all of the devices support LLPM, the Bluetooth LE LLPM connection events split evenly among all of the peripherals connected through that dongle.
```

  It results in decreased HID report rate.
  For example, you should observe a 500 Hz HID report rate when both mouse and keyboard are connected through the dongle and a 1000 Hz rate when only the mouse is connected.
* If a HID peripheral is connected through a dongle, the dongle's performance must be taken into account when measuring the report rate.
  Delays related to data forwarding on the dongle also result in reduced report rate.

> * If the device is connected through Bluetooth LE directly to the HID host, then the host sets the Bluetooth LE connection interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the device is connected through Bluetooth LE directly to the HID host, the host sets the Bluetooth LE connection interval.
```

  A Bluetooth LE peripheral can suggest the preferred connection parameters.

>   The suggested connection interval can be set using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MIN_INT` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MAX_INT` Kconfig options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  You can set the suggested connection interval using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MIN_INT` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL_PREF_MAX_INT` Kconfig options.
```

  Set parameters are not enforced, meaning that the HID host may still eventually use a value greater than the maximum connection interval requested by a peripheral.
* Radio frequency (RF) noise can negatively affect the HID report rate for wireless connections.

>   If a HID report fails to be delivered in a given Bluetooth LE LLPM connection event, it is retransmitted in the subsequent connection event which effectively reduces the report rate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If a HID report fails to be delivered in a given Bluetooth LE LLPM connection event, it is retransmitted in the subsequent connection event, which effectively reduces the report rate.
```
